# v2.0.0

## [v2.0.0] - 29-04-2025

### **Swift 2.0.0 is here — bringing new features, improvements, and refinements following the 2.0.0-beta** 🎉

Alongside the features introduced during the beta, this release adds support for new user management modules, separation of header navigation items, a simpler email concept, and general refinements to improve flexibility and consistency across Swift.
> [!NOTE]
> **Requirements**
>
> * **Swift v2.0.0 requires DynamicWeb v10.15 `*` or newer, if Shipmondo is used, it requires Shipmondo.dll version 10.0.5 (installed) or newer**
>

`* Swift v2.x does not run on DynamicWeb 9`

## New Users modules

Swift 2.0 supports new Users modules in Dynamicweb 10 as an replacement for the Extranet module.
The modules and new templates offer flexible handling with separate apps for login, user creation together with user- and address management.

* Users - Create User
* Users - Login
* Users - Recover Password
* Users - Edit User
* Users - View User
* Users - Manage Addresses
* Users - Change Password

> [!IMPORTANT]
>
> * The **Customer Center page** and the **Customer Center app** are no longer part of Swift 2.0.0. Instead, **regular Page** and the **App item type** are now used.
> * If you're not using the updated Swift database, you must **enable the new Users modules** from the Settings area:  **Administration > Feature Management > Enable new extranet apps** to be able to use and set this up.
>
> **Further improvements planned:**
>
> * Enhancing the **user experience (UX)** and **user interface (UI)** of the customer center features
> * The Manage user setup for invite and managing users, still use the Extranet app and will as well be replaced with the new Users modules alongside new user management features.
> * Option to use **System Emails** (Emails build in Visual Editor)
> * Continuing to add **user management features** and **settings** to the new Users modules.
>

## Improved Header Elements for Utility Navigation

Mini Cart, Sign In, My Account, Preferences and Favorites have been separated into **individual paragraphs**, instead of being part of the Navigation paragraph. This change makes layout and styling **simpler and more flexible**.

Benefits:

* Clear separation of functionality
* Lighter, easier-to-customize templates
* More flexible and independent layout options

## Simplified Email concept

The structure for setting up Emails has been simplified by removing header/footer together with the Email Settings page.

* **Emails now live inside a regular folder** under Pages, just like other content.
* **Note:** The **email paragraphs** themselves are for now unchanged compared to Swift 1.  
    Future improvements to email templates and design are planned.

### General improvements

**Color Scheme improvements**
Swift now help auto-name color schemes if none exist, ensuring **consistent naming**.
This makes it much easier to **switch or change color scheme collections** later.

**General Refinements**  
Various optimizations and adjustments across templates and features based on feedback from 2.0-beta.

> [!TIP]
>
> #### Guidance for Swift 2.0 Compliance (for 2.0-beta users)
>
> * Replace any use of the **Customer Center app** with the App item.
> * Replace the Customer center page with regular Page.
> * Replace use of Extranet app with the new user modules.
> * Replace the Email folder with the regular folder
> * Remove Email setting pages and Email header/footer - and move the content into each Email
> * Use the new specific **Mini Cart**, **Sign In**, My Account, Favorites and **Preferences** paragraphs in the header and footer setup
>
